<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita-history">
  <title>The History of DTA</title>
  <shortdesc>This is a short summary of the DITA history. The detailed history can be looked up at
      <xref href="http://dita.xml.org/book/history-of-dita" format="html" scope="external"
    />.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li>In <b>April 2004</b>, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information
        Standards (OASIS), formed a Technical Committee to explore a DITA Standard. The TC included
        XML tools vendors, consultants on Information Architecture and Content Management Systems
        (CMS), and end users of the DITA Document Type Definitions (DTD) and Schemas needed for the
        new DITA Standard.</li>
      <li>In <b>February 2005</b>, IBM donated the Open Toolkit, a limited version of their internal
        Information Developers Workbench, to SourceForge. IBM continues to develop the OT, which is
        not a part of the OASIS DITA Standard efforts.</li>
      <li><b>DITA 1.0</b> was approved as an OASIS Standard in <b>June 2005</b></li>
      <li><b>DITA 1.1</b> was approved in <b>August 2007</b>, adding a new Bookmap
          specialization.</li>
      <li><b>DITA 1.2</b> was released in <b>2010</b>. It added structured learning, creation of
        Learning Objects with DITA, which will be compatible with eLearning standards such as
        SCORM.</li>
      <li><b>DITA 1.3</b> was released in <b>2015</b>. It added the new troubleshooting topic,
        release management, scoped keys.</li>
      <li><b>Lightweight DITA</b> containing a very basic set of DITA elements and <b>DITA 2.0</b>
        will be released soon making it easier for people to start with DITA.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
