<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ditaval">
  <title>Filtering (DITAVAL)</title>
  <shortdesc>A DITAVAL file <i>includes</i>, <i>excludes</i> or <i>flags</i> elements with filter
    attributes. DITAVAL files can be passed into the build process by the
      <codeph>dita.input.valfile</codeph> property or by <xref
      href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/langRef/base/ditavalref.html" format="html"
      scope="external"><xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement></xref>.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p deliveryTarget="webhelp">Sample project: <xref href="../resources/projects/ditaval.zip" format="zip">ditaval.zip</xref></p>
  </body>
  <topic id="ditaval-map">
    <title>map.ditamap</title>
    <shortdesc>The <filepath>map.ditamap</filepath> references the <filepath>topic.dita</filepath>.
      The <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element includes a <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement>
      element that references the DITAVAL file containing the filter rules. The filters are applied
      in the scope of their parent element, in this case <filepath>topic.dita</filepath>, and its
      children. This mechansim is called <i>branch filtering</i>.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <note>If the same filter rules should be applied to the whole project, it is recommended to
        pass the DITAVAL file by defining the <codeph>dita.input.valfile</codeph> property.</note>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><coderef href="../samples/ditaval/map.ditamap"/></codeblock>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ditaval-topic">
    <title>topic.dita</title>
    <shortdesc>The <filepath>topic.dita</filepath> topic contains two <xmlelement>p</xmlelement>
      elements, both with the filter attribute <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, but with different values.
      In this example, the element with the attribute value <codeph>ios</codeph> should be filtered
      out.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><coderef href="../samples/ditaval/topic.dita"/></codeblock>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="ditaval-ditaval">
    <title>android.ditaval</title>
    <shortdesc>The <filepath>android.ditaval</filepath> file contains the filter rules. The
        <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> elements represent the filter rules. The <xmlatt>att</xmlatt>
      attribute contains the name of the filter attribute and the <xmlatt>val</xmlatt> attribute
      contains the value of the filter attribute. The <xmlatt>action</xmlatt> attribute specifies
      what should happen to the element (<codeph>include</codeph>, <codeph>exclude</codeph>,
        <codeph>flag</codeph>).</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><coderef href="../samples/ditaval/android.ditaval"/></codeblock>
      <p>This DITAVAL file</p>
      <ul id="ul_rx3_xm3_tz">
        <li><b>excludes</b> all elements with <codeph>platform="ios"</codeph>,
          e.g.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;p platform="ios">ios&lt;/p></codeblock>
        </li>
        <li><b>includes</b> all elements with <codeph>platform="android"</codeph>,
          e.g.<codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;p platform="android">android&lt;/p></codeblock>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
