<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="what-is-xml">
  <title>What is XML?</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA is based on the Extensible Markup Language (XML). XML is a meta-language for
    creating new languages. To understand what DITA is, it is important to understand what XML is
    and how it works.</shortdesc>
  <topic id="basic-elements">
    <title>XML Elements</title>
    <body>
      <p>XML is a markup language (like HTML) and is both human-readable and machine-readable. This
        means that text or other content is marked up with elements, called <i>tags</i>.</p>
      <p>An XML document always has a tree structure, meaning it has a single root element. Elements
        consist of an opening and a closing tag. A tag has a name, that is wrapped in a lower than
        char (<codeph>&lt;</codeph>) and a greater than char (<codeph>></codeph>).</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;!-- An opening tag --&gt;
&lt;recipe>

&lt;!-- A closing tag (indicated by the "/" char) --&gt;
&lt;/recipe>

&lt;!-- The short form, a combination of opening and closing tag. The "/" is placed after the name --&gt;
&lt;recipe/></codeblock>
      <p>An XML document may contain comments that are not processed by XML processors. A comments
        starts with <codeph>&lt;!--</codeph> and ends with <codeph>--></codeph>.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;!-- A comment --&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>Elements may have attributes which add additional information. Attributes are included in
        the opening tag.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;element attribute="value"/></codeblock>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="topic_kkf_lcj_tz">
    <title>Schemas</title>
    <body>
      <p>The structure of an XML file can be specified using a schema. There are 3 common schema
        languages, that are can be used to specify an XML structure.</p>
      <ul id="ul_hwy_ncj_tz">
        <li>Document Type Definition (DTD)</li>
        <li>XML Schema (XSD)</li>
        <li>Relax NG (RNG/RNC)</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The DITA XML structure is defined in all 3 languages. An information architect can choose,
        which schema language he wants for validating the DITA files.</p>
      <note>The structure and principle of working with grammar files is not going to be explained
        here.</note>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic id="simple-xml">
    <title>A Simple XML document</title>
    <shortdesc>The following sample file shows a basic XML file representing a recipe to cook sunny
      side-up eggs.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-xml"><coderef href="../samples/sunny-side-up-eggs/sunny-side-up-eggs.xml"/></codeblock>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
